// sectionId: "Javascript::Programming-Basics::Conditional-Statements::If"

# Simple If Conditions
[slide hideTitle]
# Real Life Example: Watering Plants

[video src="https://videos.softuni.org/hls/javascript-basics/02.Conditions/EN/02-conditional-statements-js-8-9-Real-Life-Example-Watering-Plants-,1080p,720p,480p,360p,240p,.mp4/urlset/master.m3u8" poster="" /]


Every day we are faced with decisions to make, which we make based on conditions that may or may not depend on us.

Let us imagine the following daily situation:

You have some plants in the garden that need watering. 

Depending on the weather outside, you could decide to water them or not.

**If** it is raining:

  * I wills skip watering the plants in the garden

**Else**:

  * I will have to water them

This particular situation only has two options to choose from, but in real life, as well as in programming, you could have multiple.

Here is some pseudocode so that you can understand the concept of conditional statements when it comes to writing code:

```
if humidity is greater than 90%
  Do not water the plants
else
  Water the plants
```
[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]

# Simple "if" Conditions

[video src="https://videos.softuni.org/hls/javascript-basics/02.Conditions/EN/02-conditional-statements-js-13-14-Simple-Conditions-,1080p,720p,480p,360p,240p,.mp4/urlset/master.m3u8" poster="" /]

One of the most important statements in every programming language is the `if` statement. 

In programming we often **check particular conditions** and perform various actions depending on the result of the check. 
[image assetsSrc="02-usecase-if-statement.png" /]
This is done by using an `if` condition, which has the following structure:
```js
if (condition) {
  // condition body;
}
```

## Example: Weather
Here if the condition of rainy weather evaluates to **true**, then the body of the statement gets executed.
```js
function example(input) {                               
  if (input == 'rainy') {                                         
    console.log('Take an umbrella!');                  
  }
}
```
[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: Freezing Weather

[code-task title="Freezing weather" taskId="pb-js-conditional-statements-Freezing-Weather"  executionType="tests-execution" executionStrategy="javascript-code" requiresInput]
[code-editor language=javascript]
```
function freezingWeather(input) {
    // Write your code here
}
```
[/code-editor]
[code-adapter]
```
function adapter(input, code) {
    let inputParams = /\((.+)\)$/.exec(input)[1];
    inputParams = eval(`[${inputParams}]`);
    return code(...inputParams);
}
```
[/code-adapter]
[task-description]
# Description

Create a program, which determines if the weather is freezing:

  * You receive the degrees in Celsius (a floating-point number)
  * Print "**Freezing weather!**", if the temperature is **equal to** or **smaller than 0**

# Example

| **Input** | **Output** |
| --- | --- |
| freezingWeather(-2) | Freezing weather! |
| freezingWeather(4) | (no output) |

  
[/task-description]
[tests]
[test open]
[input]
freezingWeather(-2)
[/input]
[output]
Freezing weather!
[/output]
[/test]
[test open]
[input]
freezingWeather(4)
[/input]
[output]
[/output]
[/test]
[test]
[input]
freezingWeather(-5)
[/input]
[output]
Freezing weather!
[/output]
[/test]
[/tests]
[code-io /]
[/code-task]

[/slide]
