# Homework

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: List Towns

**Here is a link to the** [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/01.List-Towns.zip) **for this task.**

You are given an **input field** with a **button**. 

In the input field you should enter **elements**, **separated** by а **comma** and а **whitespace** (", "). 

Your task is to create a simple **template** that defines a **list** of towns. 

Each **town** comes from the **input** field.

In your `attachEvents()` function you **should** attach a click event to the **button** with id "**btnLoadTowns**" and **render** the **towns** that come from the input field in the **HTML template** with id "**towns-template**".

## Screenshots

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-list-towns-1.png" /]

**This is how the HTML looks like:**

```js
<div id="root">
   <ul>
      <li>London</li>
      <li>Paris</li>
      <li>Berlin</li>
      <li>Moscow</li>
   </ul>
</div>
```
[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: HTTP Status Cats

**Here is a link to the** [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/02.HTTP-Status-Cats.zip) **for this task.**

Your task is to **refactor** the given **HTML** and to create a **template** to represent **each** cat **card block** on its own. 

After you have **created** the templete, **render** it into the **div** with an **id** value of "**allCats**".

A **cat** has an **id**, **statusCode**, **statusMessage** and **imageLocation**. 

The cats are **seeded** using the **function** from the js file named "**catSeeder.js**"

Each card block has a **button** that **unveils** status code information **connected** to each cat. 

You should **toggle** the button and change the text from "**Show status code**" to "**Hide status code**".

## Screenshots

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-http-status-cats-1.jpg" /]

**This is how "Show status code"/"Hide status code" looks like:**

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-http-status-cats-2.jpg" /]

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-http-status-cats-3.jpg" /]

[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Remote Data

For the solution of the following tasks, you will need to use an up-to-date version of the **local REST service**, provided in the lesson's [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/JS-Apps-Server.zip) archive. 

You can read the documentation [here](https://github.com/softuni-practice-server/softuni-practice-server).
[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: Fill Dropdown

**Here is a link to the** [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/03.Fill-Dropdown.zip) **for this task.**

Create а functionality that **loads list items** from a remote service and displays them inside a **drop-down** menu. 

The user should also be able to **add new items** to the service by entering them in the **input** field on the page and submitting the form. 

Create a **template** for the **drop-down list** and the **items** inside it that can be **easily updated** with new entries.

When the program starts, the data should be automatically retrieved from the server using а GET request from the URL `http://localhost:3030/jsonstore/advanced/dropdown` and rendered as `<option>` items inside the `<select>` tag with an **id** of "**menu**". 

Upon form submission, send a **POST** request to the same URL and if it is successful, update the list of options with the newly created item.

Each item has a property **text** entered by the user and **_id**, which is generated by the server. 

When creating the HTML elements, use the **_id** as option value and text as option **textContent**.

## Example
[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-fill-dropdown-1.png" /]


**This is how the rendered HTML should look like:**

```js
<select id="menu">
   <option value="985d9eab-ad2e-4622-a5c8-116261fb1fd2">Rome</option>
   <option value="3987279d-ad4-4afb-8ca9-5b256ae3b298">Amsterdam</option>
   <option value="8f414b4f-ab39-4d36-bedb-2ad69da9c830">Munich</option>
</select>
```
[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: Table - Search Engine

**Here is a link to the** [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/04.Table-Search.zip) **for this task.**

Create a functionality that **searches** in a **table** by a provided input. 

Create a **template** for a **table row**, which can be **updated** with class values when the user performs a search. 

Load the data from the following URL with a **GET** request: `http://localhost:3030/jsonstore/advanced/table`

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-table-search-engine-1.png" /]

When the "**Search**" **button** is **clicked**, go through all cells in the table body and check if the given input is included anywhere. 

The search should be case-insensitive.

If any of the rows contains the submitted string, add a **select** class to that row. 

Note that more than one row may contain the given string. 

If there is no match **nothing** should be highlighted.

**Note:** After every search, **clear the input field** and **remove all already selected classes** (if any) from the previous search for the **new search** to contain only the **new result**.

See the file **example.html** for an example of how the rendered HTML should look like.

## Example

For instance, if we try to find "**eva**":

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-table-search-engine-2.png" /]

**The result should be:**

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-table-search-engine-3.png" /]

If we try to find all students who have email addresses in the **john-dan** domain, the expected result should be:

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-table-search-engine-4.png" /]


[/slide]

[slide hideTitle]
# Problem: Book Library

**Here is a link to the** [resources](https://videos.softuni.org/resources/javascript/javascript-applications/05.Book-Library.zip) **for this task.**

Create templates for all items on the page, as you see fit. 

See the file **example.html** for an example of how the rendered HTML may look like. 

You are free to add attributes that would help you implement the required functionality.

## Get All Books

The first task is to send a "**GET**" request to extract all books when the button "**Load All Books**" is clicked. 

To extract the data from the API, send a request to the following URL: `http://localhost:3030/jsonstore/collections/books`

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-book-library-1.jpg" /]

## Create Book

Initially, the form with **id** "**add-form**" should be displayed. 

Create a functionality that creates a new book when the submit button is clicked. 

Before sending the request be sure the fields are not empty (make validation of the input). 

To **create** a book, you must send a "**POST**" request and the JSON body should be in the following format: 

```js
{
  "author": "New Author",
  "title": "New Title"
}
```

## Get Book 
Send a "**GET**" request to the following URL:

`http://localhost:3030/jsonstore/collections/books/:id`

## Update Book 
By clicking the edit button of a book, display the form with **id** "**edit-form**" and populate its fields with the information from the selected book:

[image assetsSrc="js-application-client-side-rendering-book-library-2.jpg" /]

The HTTP command "**PUT**" modifies an existing HTTP **resource**. 

The URL is:
`http://localhost:3030/jsonstore/collections/books/:id`

The JSON body should be in the **following** format:

```js
{
  "author": "Changed Author",
  "title": "Changed Title"
}
```
[/slide]